---
title: Some Thoughts on Singapore's Success--Engineering Economic Growth
layout: single
---
Our family developed a little bit of a crush on Lee Kuan-yew lately, after my brother visited Singapore.

I’ve always intended to study Singapore, given the frequent comparison between the city-state and Hong Kong. But it is really upon close examination that I am impressed by what Singapore’s development experience has to offer. Henri Ghesquiere's book, titled "Singapore's Success: Engineering Economic Growth", is a good summary of the success Singapore has achieved, and a quick decomposition of the driving forces underlying its growth. 

Singapore’s paternalistic government is often criticized by western observers as undemocratic and patriarchic. However, what came to my mind as I studied the specific policies entailed—including a well-thought out public housing policy and policies to encourage marriage—and the related implementation, characterized by efficiency and free of corruption—was that my Dad would be genuinely happy about these policies. And I would be genuinely happy about those policies for my sons and daughters.

What I’m trying to say is that despite its flaws, Singapore’s paternalistic government works. Moreover, it shows me how the Asian familial values can be carried into the political realm successfully, and indeed forge a political system that is every bit as competitive as what the West has to offer, in terms of delivering the end goals of an ideal society.

In comparison, scholars in the West are, in my opinion, sometimes over-hyped about China. There is no doubt that China is important. No one should overlook the importance of China’s market, the remarkable lift from poverty of millions of people, and its impressive growth in the past decades. However, I do have qualms about the way Western scholars sometimes over-sell China’ success story. China’s success came at tremendous social costs, and the regime, up till this day, is fraught with corruption, social, economic, and political inequality, pollution, and abuse of human rights. If Singapore’s paternalistic government demonstrated how a government could love and care for its people like a father, China’s state of politics demonstrated the worst of the Asian familial instinct: common people hand favors to their close friends, relatives or associates, and turn a blind eye to strangers. To all of those suggesting that China offers a "new model" for growth, I would suggest them to take a good look at Singapore's story also.

In terms of the economy, Singapore also did something innovative: combining the market economy with state-led economic policies. Singapore is ranked right next to Hong Kong on economic freedom and openness, but instead of taking a laissez-faire approach, Singapore subsidizes areas like basic healthcare, education, and home ownership, because of favorable externalities. Moreover, despite a strong presence of the public sector as producer of goods and services in the economy, the government is highly aware of market principles and the need to minimize rent-seeking behaviors. Honestly, I have studied countries like Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, which follow state-led industrial policies, and while all these states saw huge economic improvements, many of them also ran into problems of over-capacity, high debt ratio, and corruption, at one point or another. But Singapore is the outlier in being relatively free of those same troubles.

In short, the success of Singapore’s political system and economy deserve so much more attention from those studying political economy, in my opinion. It not only provides an example of how Western and Eastern political philosophies could meet, but also a demonstration of the balance between total market and total government-led economy. Clearly, it would not be feasible to copy and paste Singapore’s policies onto other economies, but the Singapore success story should really inspire all those seeking for better policies for their home societies.
